# postgraphile-safe-update-and-delete-plugin
A plugin for postgraphile adding safe update and delete mutations, where the
client must prove knowledge of overwritten/deleted data

 * Written by David Björkevik <david@bjorkevik.se>
 * Paid for by [Envista AB](https://www.envista.se/)
 * Thanks to [benjie](https://github.com/benjie) for useful pointers on how to
   implement this

I needed to build this for an internal project. **It needs better
packaging to be distributed** but I release it anyways in case it helps
someone.

## Premise

You have a `TIMESTAMP WITH TIMEZONE`-column in your PostgreSQL tables that
holds the timestamp of last row update, which is preferably automatically 
updated by a trigger.

## What does the plugin do?
It alters the update and delete mutations generated by postgraphile so that each
input type also contains a mandatory field with the current row timestamp.

If the database row has changed (typically by some other client) the provided 
timestamp will be stale. In this case an error is thrown and the mutation is
blocked.

## Usage

The function `makeSafeUpdateAndDeletePlugin` generates a plugin that will check
the value of the column with the name provided.

```javascript
const SafeUpdateAndDeletePlugin = 
  makeSafeUpdateAndDeletePlugin({timestampColumn: 'modified'});
app.use(
  postgraphile(process.env.DATABASE_URL, "app_public", {
    appendPlugins: [SafeUpdateAndDeletePlugin],
    graphiql: true,
  })
);
```

## Notes

 * Tables that lack a column with the given name will not have the safety
   logic added
 * To disable the safety logic explicitly for a table, use the 
   `@disableSafeUpdateAndDelete` tag
